token-swap/js/README.md, before:

# Token-swap JavaScript API

The Token-swap JavaScript library comprises:

* A library to interact with the on-chain program
* A test client that exercises the program
* Scripts to facilitate building the program

## Getting Started

First fetch the npm dependencies, including `@solana/web3.js`, by running:
```sh
$ npm install
```

### Select a Network

The client connects to a local Solana cluster by default.

To enable on-chain program logs, set the `RUST_LOG` environment variable:

```bash
$ export RUST_LOG=solana_runtime::native_loader=trace,solana_runtime::system_instruction_processor=trace,solana_runtime::bank=debug,solana_bpf_loader=debug,solana_rbpf=debug
```

To start a local Solana cluster run:
```bash
$ npm run localnet:update
$ npm run localnet:up
```

Solana cluster logs are available with:
```bash
$ npm run localnet:logs
```

For more details on working with a local cluster, see the [full instructions](https://github.com/solana-labs/solana-web3.js#local-network).

### Run the test client

```sh
$ npm run start
```

## Pointing to a public Solana cluster

Solana maintains three public clusters:
- `devnet` - Development cluster with airdrops enabled
- `testnet` - Tour De Sol test cluster without airdrops enabled
- `mainnet-beta` -  Main cluster

Use npm scripts to configure which cluster.

To point to `devnet`:
```bash
$ npm run cluster:devnet
```

To point back to the local cluster:
```bash
$ npm run cluster:localnet
```

Commit message:

token-swap js: Prepare package for npm (#475)
* Run `pretty` properly
* Add `build:program` like for spl-token
* Add TypeScript to CI
* snake_case -> camelCase variables
* Combine transactions on swap initialization
* Make instruction functions static

token-swap/js/README.md, after:

# Token-swap JavaScript API

The Token-swap JavaScript library comprises:

* A library to interact with the on-chain program
* A test client that exercises the program
* Scripts to facilitate building the program

## Getting Started

First fetch the npm dependencies, including `@solana/web3.js`, by running:
```sh
$ npm install
```

### Select a Network

The client connects to a local Solana cluster by default.

To enable on-chain program logs, set the `RUST_LOG` environment variable:

```bash
$ export RUST_LOG=solana_runtime::native_loader=trace,solana_runtime::system_instruction_processor=trace,solana_runtime::bank=debug,solana_bpf_loader=debug,solana_rbpf=debug
```

To start a local Solana cluster run:
```bash
$ npm run localnet:update
$ npm run localnet:up
```

Solana cluster logs are available with:
```bash
$ npm run localnet:logs
```

For more details on working with a local cluster, see the [full
instructions](https://github.com/solana-labs/solana-web3.js#local-network).

### Build the on-chain program

```bash
$ npm run build:program
```

### Run the test client

```sh
$ npm run start
```

## Pointing to a public Solana cluster

Solana maintains three public clusters:
- `devnet` - Development cluster with airdrops enabled
- `testnet` - Tour De Sol test cluster without airdrops enabled
- `mainnet-beta` -  Main cluster

Use npm scripts to configure which cluster.

To point to `devnet`:
```bash
$ npm run cluster:devnet
```

To point back to the local cluster:
```bash
$ npm run cluster:localnet
```
